CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, before:

# Code of Conduct

This document lays out the ground rules for participating in the [clj.social](https://clj.social) community.
It is intended to protect all members of our community from harassment and to ensure that our community is 
as welcoming and inclusive as possible. This is a working document, so the [clj.social](https://clj.social) 
team may amend this CoC to better meet these goals in the future.

## Goals

* Provide a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for everyone interested in Clojure, ClojureScript, 
Open Source Software and any other subject related to Software Development, regardless of level of experience, 
gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, disability, personal appearance, body size, race, ethnicity, 
age, religion, nationality, political affiliation, or other similar characteristic.
* Create a supportive community, where people freely share their passions and are excited and positive about 
each other’s successes.
* Provide a venue for casual conversations — we may all be passionate about technology, but that doesn’t 
mean that our conversations always centre on that shared passion.

## Non-Goals

While it’s important to know what [clj.social](https://clj.social) is, it’s just as important to understand 
what we’re not. [clj.social](https://clj.social) is not:

* A free speech zone. [clj.social](https://clj.social) is a community with specific — and high — standards of 
behaviour. If you would like to exercise your full free speech rights, you can do so somewhere else; while on 
[clj.social](https://clj.social), you should agree to follow the community rules set out in this CoC.
* An advocacy space. There are many important, controversial and political issues; and advocating for what 
you believe is important. However, [clj.social](https://clj.social) is not the place for that advocacy. 
Even correct views can violate our CoC.
* An experts-only space. We all share a love of Clojure and FOSS, but no [clj.social](https://clj.social) 
user should be shamed for not understanding a basic concept or told to read the manual before asking 
questions about a certain technology.

## Public Toots

Public Toots are those that are posted to the public timelines. This means that anyone on 
[clj.social](https://clj.social) can see your Toot on the local timeline and anyone on the Internet can see 
your Toot via the [see what’s happening page](https://clj.social/public). This also means that your Toot 
will be visible to any instances that [clj.social](https://clj.social) federates with, via the federated 
timeline.

## Non-Public Toots

At [clj.social](https://clj.social), we consider a non-public Toot to be Toots that are not posted to the 
public timelines. These include Toots that are posted with the following privacy settings:

* **Unlisted** - Not posted to public timelines, but viewable if someone visits your profile.
* **Follower-only** - Only viewable by a user who follows you.
* **Direct** - Only viewable to users who are @ mentioned in a Toot.

Users who follow you have consciously opted in to what you have to say. By using _Follower-only_ you 
are talking direct to those people, and not the wider fediverse. People who follow you are more likely 
to understand the context and tone of what you’re trying to say.

**Always use a CW where appropriate, even for Follower-only and Direct Toots.**

## Reporting Violations

If you notice a toot that violates this code of conduct, please report it. It is easy to assume that 
someone else has already reported a toot, but it is easy for everyone to feel that way [and no one to 
report the toot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bystander_effect).

## Let the moderators moderate
If you see a toot that potentially contravenes this Code of Conduct, do not try to moderate, 
reprimand or enforce this CoC. That is the job of the moderation team.

Instead, please report the toot to the moderation team, who will take appropriate action.

## Catch-all

The moderation team will always take a pragmatic approach to every report they receive - if they 
feel that a problematic Toot isn’t explicitly called out in this CoC, yet is inappropriate for 
[clj.social](https://clj.social), the Toot will likely be removed and the member will be dealt 
with appropriately.

Commit message:

set moderator and how to send report

CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, after:

# Code of Conduct

This document lays out the ground rules for participating in the [clj.social](https://clj.social) community.
It is intended to protect all members of our community from harassment and to ensure that our community is 
as welcoming and inclusive as possible. This is a working document, so the [clj.social](https://clj.social) 
team may amend this CoC to better meet these goals in the future.

## Goals

- Provide a friendly, safe, and welcoming environment for everyone interested in Clojure, ClojureScript, 
Open Source Software and any other subject related to Software Development, regardless of level of experience, 
gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, disability, personal appearance, body size, race, ethnicity, 
age, religion, nationality, political affiliation, or other similar characteristic.
- Create a supportive community, where people freely share their passions and are excited and positive about 
each other’s successes.
- Provide a venue for casual conversations — we may all be passionate about technology, but that doesn’t 
mean that our conversations always centre on that shared passion.

## Non-Goals

While it’s important to know what [clj.social](https://clj.social) is, it’s just as important to understand 
what we’re not. [clj.social](https://clj.social) is not:

- A free speech zone. [clj.social](https://clj.social) is a community with specific — and high — standards of 
behaviour. If you would like to exercise your full free speech rights, you can do so somewhere else; while on 
[clj.social](https://clj.social), you should agree to follow the community rules set out in this CoC.
- An advocacy space. There are many important, controversial and political issues; and advocating for what 
you believe is important. However, [clj.social](https://clj.social) is not the place for that advocacy. 
Even correct views can violate our CoC.
- An experts-only space. We all share a love of Clojure and FOSS, but no [clj.social](https://clj.social) 
user should be shamed for not understanding a basic concept or told to read the manual before asking 
questions about a certain technology.

## Public Toots

Public Toots are those that are posted to the public timelines. This means that anyone on 
[clj.social](https://clj.social) can see your Toot on the local timeline and anyone on the Internet can see 
your Toot via the [see what’s happening page](https://clj.social/public). This also means that your Toot 
will be visible to any instances that [clj.social](https://clj.social) federates with, via the federated 
timeline.

## Non-Public Toots

At [clj.social](https://clj.social), we consider a non-public Toot to be Toots that are not posted to the 
public timelines. These include Toots that are posted with the following privacy settings:

- **Unlisted** - Not posted to public timelines, but viewable if someone visits your profile.
- **Follower-only** - Only viewable by a user who follows you.
- **Direct** - Only viewable to users who are @ mentioned in a Toot.

Users who follow you have consciously opted in to what you have to say. By using _Follower-only_ you 
are talking direct to those people, and not the wider fediverse. People who follow you are more likely 
to understand the context and tone of what you’re trying to say.

**Always use a CW where appropriate, even for Follower-only and Direct Toots.**

## Reporting Violations

If you notice a toot that violates this code of conduct, please report it. It is easy to assume that 
someone else has already reported a toot, but it is easy for everyone to feel that way [and no one to 
report the toot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bystander_effect).

### Moderators

- [@avelino](https://clj.social/@avelino)

> Want to help clj.social by being a moderator? Send a message to [@avelino](https://clj.social/@avelino) and he will help you become part of the team, **but remember that you don't need _"status"_ to report rule violations**.

## Let the moderators moderate
If you see a toot that potentially contravenes this Code of Conduct, do not try to moderate, 
reprimand or enforce this CoC. That is the job of the moderation team.

Instead, please report the toot to the moderation team, who will take appropriate action.

## Catch-all

The moderation team will always take a pragmatic approach to every report they receive - if they 
feel that a problematic Toot isn’t explicitly called out in this CoC, yet is inappropriate for 
[clj.social](https://clj.social), the Toot will likely be removed and the member will be dealt 
with appropriately.
